.TH "wurf" "1" "Last Modified: June 25, 2025"
.SH NAME
\fBwurf\fP \- A small, simple, stupid webserver to share files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wurf
.RI [ options ] " file"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwurf\fP is a tool to copy files between hosts. It can
serve a specified file on HTTP,just for a given number of times, and then
shutdown. It can be easily used to share files across the computers on a
net, and given that the other ends should have just a browser, it can share
stuff between different operating system, or different devices (e.g.: a
smartphone). It can also show a simple html form in order to upload a file.
commands.

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-i <ip_addr>
IP address to share the file
.TP
.B \-p <port>
Port to be used to share the file
.TP
.B \-c <count>
Number of times to share the file
.TP
.B \-z <dir>
Used on a directory, it creates a tarball with gzip compression
.TP
.B \-j <dir>
Used on a directory, it creates a tarball with bzip2 compression
.TP
.B \-Z <dir>
Used on a directory, it creates a tarball with ZIP compression
.TP
.B \-u <dir>
Used on a directory, it creates a tarball with no compression
.TP
.B \-s
Used to distribute wurf itself
.TP
.B \-t
Enables TLS mode
.TP
.B \--cert <cert_file>
With -t, specifies a pem formatted certificate file
.TP
.B \--key <key_file>
With -t, specifies a pem formatted key file
.TP
.B \--keypass <key_password>
With -t, specifies the key password
.TP
.B \-U
wurf provides an upload form and allows uploading files

.SH FILES
You can specify different defaults in two locations: /etc/wurfrc
and ~/.wurfrc can be INI-style config files containing the default
port and the default count. The file in the home directory takes
precedence. The compression methods are "off", "gz", "bz2" or "zip".

    Sample file:

        [main]
        port = 8008
        count = 2
        ip = 127.0.0.1
        compressed = gz
        tls = on

        [tls]
        cert = /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem
        key = /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem
        keypass = my_password

.SH AUTHOR
wurf is maintained by Sébastien Santoro <dereckson@nasqueron.org>,
based on woof source code written by Simon Budig <simon@budig.de>.

This manual page was written by Andrea Colangelo <warp10@ubuntu.com>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
